Add resource-config pages for microbatch configs (#6575)
dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/reference/resource-configs/begin.md

---
title: "begin"
id: "begin"
sidebar_label: "begin"
resource_types: [models]
description: "dbt uses `begin` to determine when a microbatch incremental model should begin from. When defined on a micorbatch incremental model, `begin` is used as the lower time bound when the model is built for the first time or fully refreshed."
datatype: string
---

Available in dbt Cloud Versionless and dbt Core v1.9 and higher.

## Definition

> Set the `begin` to the timestamp value which for which your microbatch model data should begin -- "at what point does data become relevant for the microbatch model" --.  You can configure `begin` for a [model](/docs/build/models) in your `dbt_project.yml` file, property YAML file, or config block. The value for `begin` must be a string representing an ISO formatted date OR date and time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Set the `begin` config to the timestamp value at which your microbatch model data should begin &mdash; at the point the data becomes relevant for the microbatch model.  You can configure `begin` for a [model](/docs/build/models) in your `dbt_project.yml` file, property YAML file, or config block. The value for `begin` must be a string representing an ISO formatted date OR date and time.
```

## Examples

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The following examples set `2024-01-01 00:00:00` as the `begin` config for the `user_sessions` model.

```

<Tabs> 

<TabItem value="model" label="Models">

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The following examples set `2024-01-01 00:00:00` as the `begin` config for the `user_sessions` model.
```

> Here's an example in the `dbt_project.yml` file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Example in the `dbt_project.yml` file:
```

<File name='dbt_project.yml'>

```yml
models:
  my_project:
    user_sessions:
      +begin: "2024-01-01 00:00:00"
```
</File>

Example in a properties YAML file:

<File name='models/properties.yml'>

```yml
models:
  - name: user_sessions
    config:
      begin: "2024-01-01 00:00:00"
```

</File>

Example in sql model config block:

<File name="models/user_sessions.sql">

```sql
{{ config(
    begin='2024-01-01 00:00:00'
) }}
```

</File> 

> This setup sets `2024-01-01 00:00:00` as the `begin` for the `user_sessions` model.

Reviewer: Same feedback as previous page, sets expectations early
```suggestion
```
